### Presentation of Self in Everyday Life, Erving Goffman ([Link](http://www.munmund.net/courses/fall2016/resources/Goffman_PresentationOfSelf.pdf))  

### The Presentation of Self in the Age of Social Media: Distinguishing Performances and Exhibitions Online, Bernie Hogan, Bulletin of Science Technology & Society 2010 ([Link](https://is.muni.cz/el/1423/jaro2013/ZUR589f/um/Hogan__2010_.pdf))  

---

Goffman, in his study "Presentation of Self in Everyday Life", tries to reason about people's behaviours in a social setting. He says that, in a social interaction, people will try to influence the direction of discussion, and present an idealized version of self while doing so. As the interaction progresses, the group ends up getting into a state of "working consensus" where people try to express views that fit into the direction the discussion is taking, not necessarily what they might be thinking. These are interesting forays into understanding how social interactions occur, and why certain people might be more successful than others in networking with people in a social setting.  
On the other hand, Hogan takes Goffman's thoughts, and attempts to fit them in today's social setting, where online platforms dominate the social discourse. Hogan proposes that interactions on social media can be seen as an "exhibition" rather than a "scripted drama" as Goffman suggests. Given that these exhibitions are tied to one's social identity, there's a marked difference in people's actions on social media.  
The articles smoothly transition into our discussions from recent classes - Hogan mentions how strong and weak ties on social media factor amongst people's choices about participation online. It also ties back to strength of ties in terms of what facets of life are people willing to show, and how much do they want to leave to "curation" by these platforms. In a way, Hogan attempts to move the "stage" identified by Goffman - Goffman said that each social interaction is a stage, and different interactions are separate stages. In an online world, where you might be giving the same information out to both your inner circle and your acquaintances (since a "friend" on social media is mere binary to start with), Goffman's stages do not apply. In my opinion, the stages have just moved - Facebook might be one stage, while another, more closed platform will be another stage (and the examples in Hogan's paper suggest similar behaviours.)  
These papers attempt to understand human behaviour and how it changes when tied with their identity - how it changes when people don't know you vs when they do, how it changes when it is tied to your name vs when it isn't. Hogan, in particular, gievs a great rubric to evaluate most, if not all, social media platforms today, and how the ideas of old can be applied and tweaked to suit today's social interactions.  
But again, with time, social interactions have evolved. What was applicable in Goffman's time didn't quite stand during Hogan's time. And what Hogan proposed in 2010 does not necessarily hold true in 2023. Though Hogan is still pretty accurate in terms of structures of exhibition, ideas of third-party curation and behavioural changes and trust, today's platforms have evolved too. There's a spurt of tie-less platforms, where you aren't tied to your identity. This is an interesting foray of research that can come as an extension of what Hogan did. Though Hogan mentions shortcomings of his theory and how they cannot be applied everywhere, it opens up scope for further research and improvement of Hogan's ideas.  
Goffman's and Hogan's ideas have stood the test of time though. Be in 1960s or 2020s, in an in-person social setting, people always end up building an idealized persona of themselves, try to steer the discussion and building "working consensus" in order to maintain social decorum. And exhibitionism has just grown in social media today - people trust platforms to efficiently "curate" their information, and are more comfortable and confident in revealing private information to their strong ties. Finally, social media spaces are also allowing one to have two different personas - using it as a stage for performance (via live streams for example), as well as using it as an exhibition platform (for content creation).  