# An Experimental Study of the Small World Problem
### Jeffrey Travers (Harvard University) and Stanley Milgram (The City University of New York)
### Sociometry, Volume 32, Issue 4 (Dec., 1969), 425-443 ([Link](https://pdodds.w3.uvm.edu/teaching/courses/2009-08UVM-300/docs/others/1969/travers1969.pdf))

---

The study tries to explore the geographical and social aspects of the Small World Problem. It builds on top of the unpublished "Contacts and Influences" manuscript authored by Pool and Kochen, which attempted to mathematically model this problem.  
Simply said, this study runs an experiment where a "target person" is attempted to be reached by a group of "starting persons", by generating acquaintance chains along the way. Three groups were selected, two located geographically further away from the target while one of these two were "biased" - selected in a manner that had an easier way to reach the target (belonging to the same industry as the target). The other groups were selected randomly using newspaper advertisements. The researchers also took steps to identify the steps along the chain, by asking people to write back postcards containing information about who they were and who was the next selected link in the chain. The ask was to send a document to the target. A chain would end if the document reached the target or someone along the way decided not to participate. The researchers would monitor drop-out based on the postcards they received. The aim was to identify how the "chain length" varied across geographic and social differences, differences in characteristics like age, sex, etc. among the participants of a chain, differences between complete and incomplete chains, among others.  
There are interesting insights in the paper, about how certain individuals can become "hubs" in the study - with them getting involved in multiple chains - by virtue of their connection either geographically or with some other characteristic such as occupation, and the impact it has on chain completion. It also briefly touches upon other characteristics like age, sex, occupation of chain members and how it correlates with who they send it to next in the chain, along with checks for statistical significance using the chi-square test.  

---

I think that this paper has an interesting approach towards this problem, and uses a good methodology to test this approach. The idea of using feedback from recipients by asking them to send back postcards gave them a good indicator of how the chains progressed, irrespective of whether they were completed or not. The research questions also spanned many different areas, not just restricting to mathematical concepts like chain lengths and probability of two peple knowing each other, but also in terms of social characteristics and how it affects people's social networks, including indications about what people might generally consider when going along their networks, and how this varies across age, gender, etc.  
But this study methodology is also built on certain assumptions that might not necessarily hold true, and is prone to biases. Starting with the methodology of selecting the "staring persons", given that it was via newspaper advertisements, it might not be totally random depending on how it is worded - whether it sought certain skills in people, like "well-connected"-ness for example. Such wording can change the kind of people that would respond to the call.  
As with any other social study, this study is also subject to individual judgement - whether or not a chain continues depends on what an individual thinks about their network - someone might think that it is less likely that their network will be able to continue the chain, but the paper itself suggests that people usually aren't fully aware about the directions their network can take beyond a certain degree of connections. This can lead to wrongful termination of chains. This can also affect the conclusions made about chain lengths for complete vs incomplete chains. Also, a longer chain is more probable to be incomplete since it interacts with more people and more such individual opinions. There's also scope for an element of *survivorship bias* to the results - incomplete chains would've probably been even longer if they were completed, thus lowballing the _actual_ average distance that was computed by the study.  
Another potential "individual judgement" problem that can affect the results is that this methodology is akin to a greedy algorithm - at each stage, the next recipient chosen depends on what the current recipient thinks is the best step forward. This approach may not necessarily give us the _shortest_ path between two individuals, but rather a collection of locally-optimised links strung together, longer than the ideal shortest path sought. To get a more accurate number, a huge collection of the complete social graph of the population is required, which is not feasible.  
Lastly, information provided about the target can greatly influence chain length - with different or more information provided, chains can take different paths and chain lengths might significantly vary, based on information about what caused chains to terminate. It can also indicate what factors are used by people to determine the next recipient in the chain - both in terms of "distant" targets, as well as from a sociological point of view.  
Other questions that arise are - the conclusion section talks about how ~5 is consistent number even in other studies, but will it still be significant if the starting population was geographically further away on say, the west coast? Another nitpick would be when considering either the source or target being among lesser connected groups (an extreme example being remote tribes which do not maintain contact with outside world.)  
Lastly, the study also touches upon future potential for research in this direction, especially on "hubs" - common individuals at which multiple chains converge, which can be significant influences on small-world behaviour.  
  
This paper has a lot of interesting insights and a good methodology to test and evaluate the questions at hand. It lead to further research on the strongly connected nature of social networks, even going as far as epidemiology, power grids and neural networks. It gave a boost to the strongly connected networks theory.