### The Benefits of Facebook “Friends:” Social Capital and College Students' Use of Online SNS ([Link](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/j.1083-6101.2007.00367.x))
### Everyone's an influencer: Quantifying Influence on Twitter ([Link](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/b_h_m_w_WSDM_11.pdf))

---

The paper "Benefits of Facebook Friends" by Ellison, et al. takes a look at Facebook in its early days, as a representative of social networking sites. The study aimed to understand the motivation behind people's use of Facebook, specifically, undergraduate college students. The authors researched the intersection of offline and online ties between people, and whether one leads to other. They also attempted to look at strengths of ties, Facebook usage and certain psychological parameters, and how these might be intertwined. Lastly, it also introduced a new way of looking at ties - maintained social capital - to identify relationships that got weak offline, but were maintained due to these social networking sites. This paper was significant in understanding the motivations of people behind the usage of these social networks. This paper ties back to a lot of topics that we discussed previously in class, like Granovetter's strength of weak ties, social capital, bridging ties, disclosing private information to a select v/s broad group of "friends", and lastly, the intersection of offline and online social ties. The paper provided interesting insights into the social lives of the subjects, reinforcing the hypothesis that people were more likely to use Facebook for connecting and maintaining their offline ties, rather than exploring and building new ties with unknown people online. It also showed the mental boost that people could get, leading to a better self-esteem and improved social capital. Finally, it also states that it is difficult to build bonding ties on these sites, versus bridging and maintaining ties. Personally, I've observed that this has been true in my case too - I have exclusively used all the different social networking sites to reinforce my offline ties, rather than building ties with strangers. This is more pronounced in a more personalized social site like Facebook and Instagram, versus something like LinkedIn. The paper has a few limitations though, primarily that in my opinion, working with undergraduate students brings in a bias in the study - these subjects have recently changed schools and probably cities too. That'll of course lead to behaviour where their actions on Facebook will be closely tied to their old offline friends, and new offline friends that they meet in college. Another way to build on top of this study would be to continue studying these behaviours with time, and see how they differ. Tangentially, they can also look at the same problem across age groups, and how behaviour varies. The study used a lot of great ways to get data, though self-reported. Their questionnaires were tailored not just to their research questions, but also bridging these questions and generating data that helped them to interpret relationships between two discrete areas, like psychological parameters and Facebook usage.  

The paper "Everyone's an influencer" by Bakshy, et al. studies the impact of influencers in disseminating information over content-focused social media, like Twitter. They aimed to validate who they key players are in the "word-of-mouth" strategy of information spread - whether it is certain special individuals, or ordinary users on the site collectively, and to do so, used a diffusion-focused study of user data as well as past posts. This paper looks at some new aspects of sociological studies than what we discussed in class, in terms that it looks at abstract ties between people who may not necessarily know each other. Although this topic of word-of-mouth information spread on social media had been studied previously, this study looked at it from a diffusion perspective, using a more relevant way to study the topic. They built various custom metrics to determine the degree of past influence of any given user, and tied it back to predicting what their influence will be in the future. They also used large-scale data (billions of past tweets) to build these metrics, to ensure that they don't leave out gaps in their analysis. They also studied this topic from a content perspective, using Amazon's M-Turk to get human inputs into the study, though that ended up not being a significant factor in their results. I think one reason why that happened was that from a purely marketing perspective, posts being promoted are rarely links, but usually contain text and images, while this paper looked at shortened links alone. This could be one way the study can be improved further. The results were a bit surprising for me though, because the inference that ordinary users with a small follower base are more important as influencers, felt counter to the point. I suppose the design of diffusion study led to this inference, with ordinary users being a large number in their dataset compared to users with large follower base, who trigger these chains.