## [Strength of weak ties](https://immorlica.com/socNet/granstrengthweakties.pdf)

Strength of weak ties was a defining paper in the study of social networks - not just looking at social structures, but also at how the different nodes might be related to each other - not all nodal relationships are same, and each of these different edge "weights" can lead to wildly different outcomes for the nodes in question. The paper aims to study how these different tie strengths affect the community, bridging the micro and macro level studies. This bridge was particularly significant in understanding the significance and impact of social structures on a more zoomed-out level, and the impact of individual tie strengths on the fate of a community. At the same time, the paper also explored how your ties can affect your own individual progress.  
This discussion goes back very well to what we discussed in class in recent days, regarding how human relationships can affect each other on a micro level. For example, when discussing Thomas Kurt's hypotheses about how "newcomers" in a field tend to make more disruptive innovations, this paper shows empirical evidence that people with weak ties tend to be better at communicating novel information. The example of job seekers in a network tangentially relates to this - someone with a strong tie to you might not be able to provide you with novel job opportunities, as opposed to someone weakly tied to you, because they are exposed to a much different set of information than your close circle is. Other connections that can be made with previous research is regarding "trust in leaders", where a good trust chain between a leader and someone further apart from them is only good if the intermediary "weak ties" are good.  
This paper proposes a lot of novel ideas - one regarding how "strong ties" are not necessarily the best leads in all circumstances - to reduce fragmentation in your network, you need to have bridging weak ties as well. It looks at a lot of different aspects of tie strengths - diffusion, cohesion, social mobility as well as political organization. The definitive conclusions about the importance of weak ties in a social network led to a lot of new research in this area of sociological research.  
Given the time this paper came out, the paper had a lot of good aspects, although personally I felt that it lacked structure and focus, and was vague in certain areas. It touches a lot of different tangents on which it doesn't expand on further - like the A-B-C ties idea, ideas about early adopters, etc. I felt it tried to fit a lot of related things into a general reflection of sociological observations in certain parts. It can be improved by focusing on a small number of topics and amassing empirical evidence for or against the hypotheses.  
Though the paper used good methodologies to look at empirical studies done on the topic already, with a lack of reflections "against" the hypothesis about weak ties, it feels like cherry-picking rather than strong evidence.  
But the paper relates very well to what I've seen amongst my friend circles - especially about the role of "bridging ties" in information flow. A few of my friends are in such positions where they bridge many different social circles, and their network helps a lot in information exchange and flow of ideas, not just in common topics of interest, but also in an interdisciplinary fashion - for example, between biomedical and ECE students when ECE students are working on projects with application in the biomedical field.  

---  

## [Predicting Tie Strength With Social Media](http://eegilbert.org/papers/chi09.tie.gilbert.pdf)

This paper is an interesting study into how we can distinguish our connections in the vast social media space, where every connection of ours is technically the same, but in reality, we might still be connected to acquaintances we barely interact with. With people wanting to use social media for interacting with a close group of friends and family rather than a largely unrelated group of acquaintances, this study perfectly blends the ideas of tie strengths with social media, aiming to understand how modeling tie strength can improve social media further.  
This is a very useful reading with respect to our class, where all our previous readings were about papers written in the 70s and 80s, and often our class discussions and personal experiences are slightly different, given how much more the world is connected today. This paper is not only strongly tied to the ideas of tie strengths we discussed in the "strength of weak ties" paper, but also about how the world is changing, and how it is ever-so-slightly modifying the empirical evidence used in previous research.  
The paper does a comprehensive and personalized study of how a person views a random set of "friends" on Facebook, asking well-crafted questions that indicate the subjective nature of human relationships and their complications. It also looks at other indicators like interactions with each other, publicly and privately, to determine the impact of the less-subjective factors on ties. The novel contribution of this paper, in my opinion, was that it tried to define different dimensions or indicators of tie strengths, especially in today's times. It also deviates from a few observations made previously about certain perceived indicators of tie strengths.  
One major limitation of the paper, in my opinion, is that Facebook isn't a great way to define how close a person might be to someone else. A lot of interactions (especially in a college campus setting), happen in-person, and sometimes over other channels and mediums. The inability to incorporate information from other mediums could've led to "residuals". Today's social networks use a ton of different ways to build a person's "profile", including other platforms owned by the same corporation. Lastly, the study only used client-side information given by Facebook. Facebook itself will have access to a lot more information about the ties of the individual, including how often they interact with each other's posts, overlapping topics of interests, etc. This information can be a potent addition to studies like what this paper conducted.  
But given the circumstances and terms of service under which the study operated, the authors created a very well-designed methodology to collect data. They made good use of all the client-side information, and also collated information across public and private interactions, including a little bit of natural language processing to understand intimacy and emotional connection, which are perceived to be good indicators of tie strengths in reality. Thus, the methodology used by the authors was robust.  
The observations in the paper resonated with my personal experience with my friends, both in the interactions online and in real life. For example, emotional support variables are high in relationships which are close ties - people discuss private details of life only with friends they are really close with. Similarly, frequency of communication, thread depth and social distance variables often contribute to strengthening or weakening ties over time.  